---
title: Introduction
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

# Introduction

cli-screencast is an easy to use Node.js package designed to capture and render terminal screenshots and recordings to **SVG** or **PNG** formats.

**Features:**

- Capture terminal recordings from a variety of sources like spawned processes, shell sessions, and Node.js code.
- Generate clean, high-resolution SVG or PNG images of the captured terminal output.
- Customize rendering to fine-tune the look and feel of your terminal output, adjusting colors, fonts, and other visual elements.

## Installation

Install the module using your Node.js package manager of choice:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install cli-screencast
```

## Usage

The package exports six key functions:

[**`renderScreen()`**](renderScreen.md)
: Renders a single-frame terminal screenshot - ideal for capturing the state of the terminal at a specific point in time.

[**`captureSpawn()`**](captureSpawn.md)
: Records the output of a spawned subprocess - ideal for showcasing CLI tools.

[**`captureShell()`**](captureShell.md)
: Launches and records an entire shell session, capturing everything that occurs within the shell - ideal for creating tutorials or demos.

[**`captureCallback()`**](captureCallback.md)
: Captures terminal output within a callback function, giving you fine-grained control over what output to capture.

[**`captureFrames()`**](captureFrames.md)
: Renders a recording from an array of terminal frames - ideal for when you need to control the content and timing of each frame in a capture.

[**`renderData()`**](renderData.md)
: Renders either a screenshot or a full recording from a data file generated by one of the other api methods.
